Feature - retrieve a specific secret provider based on a registered name (#211)
arcus-azure/arcus.security: docs/preview/features/secret-store/named-secret-providers.md

---
title: "Named secret providers"
layout: default
---

# Retrieve a specific secret provider from the secret store

> The default workings of the secret store, is that a set of secret providers are registered and the consumer gets access to all of secrets provided by `ISecretProvider`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default workings of the secret store, is that a set of secret providers are registered and the consumer gets access to all of secrets provided by using `ISecretProvider`.
```

> In some cases, you may want to retrieve a specific secret provider from the store. This can be because that secret provider has some functionality that the other providers doesn't have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In some cases, you may want to retrieve a specific secret provider from the store because that secret provider has some functionality that the other providers don't have.
```

> In those cases, you can register your secret provider with a unique name. This name will be matched with the secret provider so that in a later stage, you can retrieve back your named provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In those cases, you can register your secret provider with a unique name so that, in a later stage, you can retrieve back your named provider.
```

> ## Register a named secret provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Registering a named secret provider
```

Lets consider that you want explicitly use the built-in environment variables secret provider.
First, the secret provider has to be registered with a unique name. 

```csharp
.ConfigureSecretStore((config, stores) =>
{
    stores.AddEnvironmentVariables(..., name: "environment-variables");
})
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

⚠ The name of the registered secret providers should be unique; otherwise, an exception will be thrown when you try to access the `GetProvider` or `GetCachedProvider`.

```

Reviewer: However, for the last part I'd argue that the secret store builder should verify and block it so that it fails at startup, not runtime. Do you agree?

Author: Yes, that would be better. I'll make sure we do that. Although, we can only verify it for the current secret store setup, not across setups. Let me clarify, we can't still guard against this:

```csharp
.ConfigureSecretStore(stores => stores.AddProvider(..., name: "duplicate-name"))
.ConfigureSecretStore(stores => stores.AddProvider(..., name: "duplicate-name"))
```

> ## Retrieve the named secret provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Retrieving a named secret provider
```

> Now that the named environment variables secret provider is registered, we should be able to retrieve this provider somewhere else in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the named environment variables secret provider is registered, we are able to retrieve this provider in our application.
```

> Normally, you inject the `ISecretProvider` in your application service and accesses the secrets, but now you'll have to inject the `ISecretStore` interface to access the specific secret store operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Instead of injecting `ISecretProvider` in your application to access secrets, we'll inject `ISecretStore` interface to retrieve named secret providers.
```

```csharp
[ApiController]
   public class OrderController : ControllerBase
   {
       public class OrderController(ISecretStore secretStore)
       {
            // Gets the `ISecretProvider` with the matched name (with either using the `ISecretProvider` as return type or your own generic type).
            var secretprovider = secretStore.GetProvider<EnvironmentVariableSecretProvider>("environment-variables");

            // Gets the `ICachedSecretProvider` with the matched name (with either using the `ICachedSecretProvider` as return type or your own generic type).
            // Mark that this only works when the secret provider was regisered as a cached secret provider.
            ICachedSecretProvider cachedSecretProvider = secretStore.GetCachedProvider("your-cached-secret-provider");
       }
   }
```

> > Note that the name of the registered `ISecretProvider` should be unique; otherwise and exception will be thrown when you try to access the `GetProvider` or `GetCachedProvider`.

Reviewer: Let's move this to where we register it
```suggestion
```

Author: Yes, used your suggestion. Resolving.

---
title: "Named secret providers"
layout: default
---

# Retrieve a specific secret provider from the secret store

The default workings of the secret store, is that a set of secret providers are registered and the consumer gets access to all of secrets provided by `ISecretProvider`s.
In some cases, you may want to retrieve a specific secret provider from the store. This can be because that secret provider has some functionality that the other providers doesn't have.

In those cases, you can register your secret provider with a unique name. This name will be matched with the secret provider so that in a later stage, you can retrieve back your named provider.

## Register a named secret provider

First, the secret provider has to be registered with a unique name. 
Let's use this secret provider as an example:

```csharp

> public class GetAndSetSecretprovider : ISecretProvider

Reviewer: I think in this case adding a custom provider does not bring a lot of added value and might confuse people, no? Maybe just show how this works with the existing providers?

Author: Hmm, I thought with specifying a custom provider, it was more clear as of why you should use something that is already available in the 'default' secret store approach. 😅

Reviewer: Well I think they usecase is regardless of custom/built-in. You define all the secret stores that you use but in some cases you need a specific one because you have to interact with that store for example.

Example - I need a device authentication key which has a dedicated vault, so you request that specific secret provider

Author: Aha, makes sense.

Author: Used the built-in environment variable secret provider. Is that better?

Reviewer: Jup, thanks 👍

    public async Task<Secret> SetSecretAsync(string secretName, string secretValue)
    {
        // Sets the secret...
    }
}
```

As you can see, this secret provider has some extra functionality that is not available for us via the secret store.
Now, let's register this secret provider in the secret store:

```csharp
.ConfigureSecretStore((config, stores) =>
{
    stores.AddProvider(new GetAndSetSecretProvider(), options => options.Name = "get/set")
})
```

Note that we can use the `SecretProviderOptions` function here to set our unique name.

## Retrieve the named secret provider

Now that the named secret provider is registered, we should be able to retrieve this provider somewhere else in the application.
Normally, you inject the `ISecretProvider` in your application service and accesses the secrets, but now you'll have to inject the `ISecretStore` interface to access the specific secret store operations.

```csharp
[ApiController]
   public class OrderController : ControllerBase
   {
       public class OrderController(ISecretStore secretStore)
       {
            // Gets the `ISecretProvider` with the matched name.

>             ISecretProvider secretprovider = secretStore.GetProvider("get/set");

Author: Should we allow this to return a typed instance instead so that the consumer doesn't have to cast it self?

Author: It would be easier in combination with #210 .

Reviewer: I would provide both options so that people who care can specify it while others might not care

Author: Done that. Resolving.
